so we are done with the first half of
the game theory part of the course which
was about games with complete
information in which the players know
each other's preferences over outcomes
and the second half we will look at
games with incomplete information
or payoffs or players lack some
payoff relevant information
now a quick recap to where we stand in
the course so we started here with
or
completed the topics on complete
information
specifically we have looked at the
solution concepts here from
rationalizability
all the way to sub game perfection
and now we'll do the same analysis
for games within complete information so
first in the static case
and then
in the dynamic case
and before we get
into the game theory into the strategic
decision making in this video we will
simply look at how do we model
incomplete information
now
what are a few settings of incomplete
information well
one of them that explains the concept
quite intuitively is the game of poker
so this was a
an event this summer at the world series
of poker where currently two of the best
poker players were facing each other at
the final table
and in this case here we see that
at the end adamo bet 3.4 million
into the pot so essentially the size of
the pot he doubled it
and we see that adam has nothing
he's nine and his two could don't
connect at all with the board here
and bonimo has the winning hand he has
a pair of tens which is better than
anything that adamo has
but he doesn't know whether calling
would what he would end up winning
because his incomplete information about
adam's hand
and
the thing that
bonomod tries to figure out this well he
doesn't try to figure out
do i have the better cars than adamo he
just thinks okay what's the probability
with which adamo has the better hand and
how often do i need to win by making
this call here in order for it to be
profitable
another situation where we have
incomplete information is
if we
have car troubles and we bring our car
to the mechanic and then the mechanic
tells us that
much more needs fixing than
um what we thought it is so maybe the
mechanic houses all you also need to
replace your engine and that is going to
be very expensive
now what we don't know here is well we
don't know
if our car really needs those repairs
because we don't know if the mechanic is
honest
so we have
incomplete information about two
characteristics in this model
and then we could consider
startup where we try to
start an improved e-commerce platform to
compete with pc home one thing that i
always miss here in taiwan is amazon and
how convenient it is to find everything
on amazon
and i think well maybe somebody could
start a an e-commerce platform that
presents information in a bit
more intuitive way i would say than pc
home does
and
well
what is the incomplete information that
we have well
if pc home is already innovating so
let's say if by the time your startup is
up and running pc home has an improved
version
then
then it's going to be hard to make a
profit because pc home has their user
base already
so
in more economic terms what we really
want to know is
how much
is pc homes cost to innovate if it's
very cheap then they will innovate soon
and our startup is going to be futile
now those are all
situations of incomplete information how
can we write those down formally
well we have seen
information sets already
two nodes in an information set in the
game tree
meant that
the player cannot distinguish between
these two
nodes and so we grouped them together in
an information set and that's the same
idea here so
the unpaid the unknown payoff relevant
state is called the state of nature and
we use theta to denote the state of
nature
and there's a few possible cases that it
can take so pc home
pc homes cost to innovate could either
be let's say high or it could be low
and then we can group the information
that we have about
this
unknown state of the nature state of
nature
with information sets
so essentially
so essentially this is similar to
information sets in a game tree except
here that the tree is missing because
we're just looking at a static setting
yeah but
we have information sets for both
players
then games with incomplete information
we also call information sets types
so here pc home would have a high cost
type and a low cost type
and
we simply don't know whether the cost to
innovate is high
or low
now so pc home knows its innovation cost
so it has two types two information sets
and we don't know pc homes innovation
costs so we have one information set
okay now
this model is not quite sufficient to
describe some interesting economic
applications such as
the
example of the mechanic
so the mechanic
what do we really want to know we want
to know whether our car needs to repairs
so theta n here means that we don't need
the repairs in theta r means we need
these expensive repairs
now we can
now our beliefs about this unknown
quantity depend on whether the mechanic
is honest or dishonest which is also
information that we don't know but it
doesn't affect our payoffs
so
what we do is we can encode both pieces
of information
in
four different states of the world which
contain all the possible combinations of
the events so here in omega rh we do
need extensive repairs anti-mechanic is
honest about it uh here we do need the
repairs but the mechanic is dishonest
and
so on
now what do the players know here well
the mechanic knows both the mechanic is
both an expert about cars he knows
whether we need the repairs or not and
he also knows that he's honest or not so
he has four singleton information sets
but we don't know anything so we have a
single information set
so this should be signal not singleton
now
those states omega are called states of
the world because they completely
describe
the state of all
unknown or all uncertain quantities in
our model
so similar to a node in a game tree
describes everything that has happened
in the game
in a state of the world describes
everything
how it is
in our model in our world
and we denote by capital omega instead
of all states of the world
now a subset
of
the states of the world is called an
event so for example the mechanic is
honest would be an event because it's a
subset it's a subset of those two states
the event that we need the extensive
repairs is also an event
and so on
now if the state of the world describes
completely describes all unknown or all
uncertain quantities in our model then
this means that if we have any uncertain
quantity
call it x
let's say the mechanics honestly let's
say it's x and it can take two values
yes he's honest or no he's not
and this uncertain quantity is
completely determined by the state of
the world
so this means that
x is a function
of the states of the world right if it's
a state of the world omega h
then he's honest and if it's his little
world omega d then he's dishonest so
formally x is a function from the set of
all states of the world to
whatever outcome space x lies in so here
honest or dishonest
so this means any uncertain quantity
is simply a random variable so a map
from omega to some outcome space is
called a random variable
and there's a quote by nassim nicholas
taylor he's the author of black swan
where he says that while in theory
randomness is an intrinsic property in
practice randomness is incomplete
information and this is precisely what
we are describing here so we don't know
whether mechanic is honest
which means
the mechanics honesty from our point of
view is a random variable whose outcome
we haven't observed
and this also applies to the state of
nature
right whether the car needs repairs
from our point of view is random we
simply haven't observed
uh the outcome of it so also the state
of nature
we can describe as a
map as a function from set of all states
of the world to
the set of all states of nature
we mentioned the reason why we introduce
these states of the world is because
they help
correlate
information or they help us correlate
beliefs so if we have some beliefs about
the honesty of the mechanic
then when the mechanic tells us that we
need repairs
then we can use our beliefs about the
mechanics honesty to infer
our beliefs about
the state of nature about whether we
need
those expensive repairs
so suppose our prior beliefs are given
in the following way
that
whenever we have car troubles then in
ten percent of those we actually need
the serious repairs that the mechanic is
recommending
and
we suppose that 20 of all mechanics are
dishonest
now it's a reasonable assumption that
the two
events are independent
and
so this means that if we describe the
probability of each state of the world
then we simply look at the product of
the two
so
in two percent the product of 10 and 20
percent
are
we do need serious repair and the
mechanic is dishonest
and then
in 10 times 80 percent the mechanic is
honest but we do need two repairs
and here we have um 20 of mechanics are
dishonest and 90 of the time we don't
need to repairs and then the remaining
probability here where the mechanic is
honest and we don't need serious repairs
so this would describe
the beliefs with which we go into the
mechanics shop
then
maybe we have some conjecture about what
the mechanic would do and suppose our
conjecture right now is that
the dishonest mechanic always recommends
extensive repairs
so the dishonest mechanic
will always recommend extensive repairs
on these two states
and
the honest mechanic only recommends
extensive repairs when we actually need
it
in terms of strategy we can write down
the mechanic strategy in the following
way so
as we know a strategy is a map from
information sets to available actions
and
so we say that okay only the honest
mechanic
the only way how we can get the
recommendation for minor repairs if is
the mechanic is honest and we don't need
extensive repairs so we can write this
down as follows tao12
is mapped to minor repairs and any for
any other type any other type will
recommend extensive repairs
now how do we update our information
once we once we hear the recommendation
let's denote by
a1 the action that is realized from the
mechanic
and if the mechanic says minor repairs
then we know this can only have come
from
one type so we know the true state of
the world is now the state where the
mechanic is both honest and more
importantly for us we don't need the
repairs
and
if we hear extensive repairs then we
don't know quite as much but we have
been able to exclude this state from our
considerations
this means now we have two information
sets because we have received different
recommendations by the mechanic
and now we want to update our beliefs
using bayes rule
so bayes rule as a quick
reminder for
those of you who have had probability or
statistics a long time ago
in bayes rule we can allows us to
compute the conditional probability of
an event x given event y
as the ratio of the fact that both
events are true divided by the
probability that y is true
so how do we apply this in our setting
look here we go into the mechanics shop
with a prior p
then we receive some information that
the true state is in an information set
tau i so let's say
that we do or that
after the recommendation of the mechanic
and then we can update
our beliefs about
either an individual state of the world
or
an event
using bayes rule so the event that we're
interested in here is
do we need those repairs
and we call those posterior beliefs
and we can write it p tau i for short
in the same way as a strategy profile
changes the distribution um
the available information that we have
changes the distribution over all
possible states
now note here that
when we use bayes rule
we take
the intersection of event y with our
information set so
this means that any
event
that does not intersect with our
information set we have to attach
probability zero to it and this makes
sense because
this means that
we
the information that we have if we have
information set tau i is we know
everything outside the information set
is impossible
and if y only lies outside we know y is
impossible and so we will attach
probability zero to such an event
so in our example of the mechanic
we have our prior beliefs and now we
want to update and find the posterior
how likely is it that we actually need
extensive repairs
and
what we do is we take the intersection
of the event that we're interested in
with
our information set which is this one
here
and so
what we're left with is those those two
so it's 10
in the numerator and then 28
in the denominator
so we end up with our posterior beliefs
of 10 over 28.
we can compute the posterior of the
individual states of the world as well
so for this one it's 8 over 28
then 2 over 28 and 18 over 28
and we note that
the state that is not in our information
set we indeed get 0 if we use bayes rule
to update the beliefs because we know
this cannot be the true state because
we're able to distinguish those states
good now in true
game theory fashion we put all of this
that we just discussed into one long
definition
and we call this model that we have
described we call this a belief space or
a finite belief space with a common
prior
a belief space
over the states some set of states of
nature consists of well a finite set of
players same as in a game
then
a finite set of all possible states of
the world
a common prior probability measure over
those states of the world
then a partition
of omega
into information sets for each player
and then lastly
a state of nature which
is an unknown quantity so it's a random
variable which means it's a function
from omega to
instead of all possible values it can
take
so this was
the cards in the poker example
the state of repair of our car or the
innovation cost of pc home
now in the same way that the state of
nature is unknown
the
information set of other players is also
unknown to us we don't know exactly
which information set they have
and
this we can also describe this as a
random variable as a function from omega
to two
information sets of player i
and
ti omega indicates the information set
to which
the state of the world belongs
and we call this also player i's type
so for example in poker we don't know
the cars that somebody else has and
again this is a random variable that we
haven't observed but the other player
has
let's get some practice with this model
and the first thing is we really really
need to know how to use bayes rule so
let me
explain this here again with a simple
numeric example
so here we have
a belief space of two players with
forces of the world and two information
sets each and we see here that in the
first information set
player one does not know
player two's information set
right we don't know whether it's this
one or this one because both of them
intersect with our information set so
indeed we do not know player 2's type
now if we want to compute the posterior
beliefs let's compute the posterior for
each omega so for omega 1
well we divide the prime probability for
omega 1 one quarter by the total
probability
that we assign to this information set
which is one half
and one thing to note here is that the
relative probability of these two states
does not change
so if we
update
our posteriors our beliefs with bayes
rule then we simply rescale the
probabilities by the same constant
for all
states in the information set and
anything outside the information set
now has posterior 0.
now for player two we can do the same
thing player two will believe that omega
one arises with
well one quarter over one quarter plus
one third so three over seven
and
while the other
states are then simply we believe that
they are true with the opposite um
beliefs
so what are our beliefs what's player
one's beliefs that player two's type is
the left one here well it's precisely
one half because it's the probability
with which the state of the world is
omega one
right this is for the raw mechanics of
it let's now see a somewhat more fun
application specifically the monty hall
problem
now
most of you may know this application
already
but i think the belief spaces is really
the most elegant way to explain the
monty hall problem so the setting is
this
that we are at the
game show and the game show host
so at this game show there are three
doors and behind one of the doors is a
car and behind the other two doors is a
goat and our goal is to pick the door
with the car because then we get the car
and if we pick
a door with a goat then we don't get
anything
now
the game show host asks us to pick a
door
and after we pick a door the game show
host will reveal will open a door
behind which
there's a goat
because the game show host knows where
the car is so they'll open the door show
us the goat and ask us if we want to
switch and choose another door so let's
say we pick door one they'll open door
three and ask us if we want to switch
the door too
and the famous question is should we
switch or should we not switch
because we look here at beliefs and
probabilities i want to know more
precisely with what probability do we
get the car if we switch
so let's phrase this as a
belief space and
so
the model is symmetric
depending on which door we chose so
suppose we chose door one
and
then let's write down
the belief space of all uncertainty that
is left given that we pick the door one
well
so
there are four states
after he picked
the door because monty has not opened
the door yet so we don't know yet which
door monty will open and we don't know
yet behind which door the car is and so
we can write this down with four
possible states of the world
so if we pick door one and the cars
behind door three then monty must open
door two
in the same way if we picked door
two and the car is behind now if the
car's behind door two then monty can
only open door three
and only if we're right then monty can
pick which
door he should open
so what's the information set that we
receive well
or first the state of nature the states
in nature are
where behind which door is the car
right this is the payoff relevant state
then the information is that that our
information set the information that we
have is which door does monty open so we
see the second component here
now if monty opens let's say door 3 then
our information set is tau 3
and so we update our posterior
we divide
1 6 that's the probability that we're
right
divided by the entire probability of the
information set which is
one half so we see that
we're only right with one third
probability
and we should
switch or if we switch then we're right
with probability two thirds
now
this makes one key assumption
which is that monty opens
both doors with equal probability
and this is maybe a good assumption if
monty is very energetic like this one
here but what if monty actually looks
like this
then maybe
it's
more reasonable to assume that monty
will simply walk
to the door that is closest to him
and let's say if this is door three and
and he will always open door three if he
has a choice
then
after we
update our beliefs then we see that now
the two states are equally likely and we
see that
we don't necessarily have to switch
anymore
and this means that
in the other extreme where they always
open door two
then or if we now get the information
that it's store two then switching would
give us um
the the car with probability one right
so if we now receive information tau two
then we'll write with probability zero
so
in summary
the probability with which we should
switch
depends on the relative probabilities
with which monty chooses the doors if he
has a choice
but it's always between one half and one
and so switching is weakly dominant
now
the last piece
of information in this video here
is
our beliefs about the state of nature so
we're really interested in our beliefs
about the payoff relevant state and
we only need the states of the world the
posterior beliefs to figure out our
beliefs about the state of the world so
in the monty hall example we only care
the probability with which stores with
which the cars behind which door but not
the relative probabilities
with which monty opens the doors
and so those are the beliefs
denoted by mu over state in nature
and it's really just the posterior
beliefs that the state of nature is
theta
now
mu i
omega is
a belief over the state of nature so
this is a distribution in the same way
that we denote
distributions over action profiles in a
strategy
we use the first
argument here to indicate
the variable that determines the entire
distribution so for strategies is the
history or the type and for beliefs this
is the state of the world
and then the second one
is the element
of the over which we take the
distribution so this is essentially the
probability with which
the state of the state of nature is
theta
so
what i didn't say very eloquently
rephrased again mu i omega is the entire
belief the entire distribution and mu i
omega theta is the probability that we
assign to one specific state of nature
now
because our information set changes
our beliefs will change with the
information set and in particular with
omega
now if two
for two states of the world in the same
information set our posteriors are the
same so our beliefs will also be the
same and this makes sense because you
have the same information then our
beliefs about the state of nature should
be the same
so in the example of the mechanic
our beliefs about same nature
were determined in the following way
let's look at another example of a
belief space one of my favorites
and
it's one it's avalon it's a social
deduction game
where
the players they secretly get a role
with an alignment
every player is either good or evil and
the people play in their teams
now the evil players will know who is
who
and the good players won't know
anybody's alignment so during the course
of the game the good players have to
figure out who is evil
now
here let's look at the simplest version
of it where there are five players and
five player games two of them are evil
and three good players don't know who is
evil
now
the game
works that
the players choose teams
to go on five for progressively harder
quests
and
each player on a quest can either choose
to succeed or fail the quest
but
the individual choice of the players is
not shown to each other only after the
quest
you take the aggregate success and fails
you shuffle so you don't know who
succeeded and who failed and then you
only show the aggregate successes and
fails
and if there is a fail in the quest then
the entire quest fails which is sort of
one
victory point for evil and if the entire
quest succeeds then it's one victory
point for the good players
what would you do next well after you
see all this information you will update
your beliefs your base rule and then you
go on to the next quest
i should say
um
yeah the winning condition i guess is
if three quests succeed
so the majority of quest succeeds and
good players win and if
three quests fail then evil players win
now i should say here that um this rule
here that players update their beliefs
your base rule is an optional rule
and i've seen many players play without
it
let's try to write this down as a belief
space
so
because there are five players let's
make it a little bit simpler let's look
at a belief subspace of only three
players
and we look at all the possible
alignments between those three players
and there's seven possible combinations
and so the stated nature here would be
the alignment of the players and the
state of the world would be all the
possible alignments of the players
now
evil players
know
their partner and by exclusion also the
good players
so
an evil player will have a singleton
information set
so here eg means that player 1 is evil
player 2 is good player 3 is good
and so all
the states of the world where one
player's evil will have a singleton
information set
good players don't know anybody's
alignment so they have a single
information set
for all the states of the world in which
they are good
and this gives us the following belief
space
what's the probability the prior
probability well it's given by shuffling
right we shuffle the rolls we deal them
to the players
and then
let's first look at how likely is the
state in which all the players are good
well all the players can be good only
if
the two evil players
are the ones that we don't consider
among these
belief subspace and there's only one
combination how we can give
that both of them are evil and so in
total choosing two players out of five
players there are ten different
combinations and so
this state here arises with probability
one tenth
then in the same way actually on all the
states where there are two evil players
among the three that we look at
for all of those
also
there's only one combination left for
the two other players which is that they
are both good so also all those states
will have probability one tenth
and then all the other states there's
two possible role combinations among the
other two players they could both be so
one of them is evil one of them is good
but it could be either or the other so
those are twice as likely so they have
probability one-fifth
now we update the beliefs to our
posterior beliefs
which means that we
so which means that the states are still
equally likely
so the relative probabilities between
states in an information set so here for
player one
this means that these two states will
still be twice as likely as those two
and we simply divide by the whole
probability with which this information
set is realized
and so if we add it up then we see that
this information set is realized
realized with sixty percent probability
and
so if we divide everything by sixty
percent here then we get okay those two
are still equally likely one-third and
twice as likely as those two which have
probability one-sixth
and so here this notation means that
in
the information set of this state
the players believe that this is the
right state with the 1 6 for player 1
and probabilities 1 for players two and
three because they have a singleton
information set they know this is the
right state because they are both evil
now let's see what the player's beliefs
are
let's say about
player two's alignment so here we can
look at the event that player 2 is evil
and
what our player wants believes well
let's look at
this state
here so this is state where player 2 is
actually good but player 1 doesn't know
right so what do we do
well
we look at our posterior beliefs
over
what are our posterior beliefs for this
event which means we take the
intersection of this
information set in this one and we see
that the total probability here is
one sixth plus one third is one half
so the posterior here to this last state
of the world assigns posterior 0 because
it's outside our information set
and
yeah in a different state let's say here
in eeg
our beliefs are one because we know
player two is evil um
so we see that they are our teammate
good
those are belief spaces that allow us to
model the player's
beliefs about some unknown quantity and
in
my elective class games within complete
information we look at higher order
beliefs
to analyze games like avalon in more
detail
good
what's the main concept of this video
well rational players update the beliefs
via bayes rule this is so important and
happens in so many applications that
this is really the most important part
of this week's lecture
then the minor concepts well i would say
two things i should have ordered them
the other way around i think
one thing that is very important here is
information is represented not just by
an information set but by a partition
into information sets
so
somebody has more information than
another
that's not just described by a single
information set but by the fact that the
partition is finer than somebody else's
and a belief space allows us to describe
these uncertain quantities as well as
the player's knowledge and belief about
it
and so the timing i guess of beliefs and
information here is that players start
with prior beliefs
then they receive information
which or learn their type
then they update their beliefs to the
posterior beliefs then we can use the
posterior beliefs to form the beliefs
about the state in nature so here
posterior beliefs are
on
the states of the world then the beliefs
here i guess we can also call them
posterior beliefs but we typically
denote by mu the beliefs simply about
the state in nature
good some questions for you to practice
bayes rule and how to read these belief
spaces
and the literature um
a very deep
uh cover of this topic is in martial
salon and samir and then auman was the
first writing down these
belief spaces and describing knowledge
in those
models
good that's it for this video and i'll
see you on wednesday in class